---
layout: post
title: "Identifying co-partisans"
---

- with Alex Yeandle (work in progress)


In this study we examine how people make inferences about others' voting intentions and thus determine who is a possible co-partisan and who is not. People often have preconceived beliefs about how other people will vote, how much support popular candidates and parties will receive, and who in their community will or will not support the same political party as themselves. These beliefs matter not only for electoral behaviour (Harmeier 2008; Adida et al. 2019) but also for interpersonal trust (Carlin and Love 2016) and discrimination (Mitchelitch 2015; Iyengar and Westwood 2014). Yet our understanding of how people form these beliefs is still lacking, particularly in low-income contexts where it is uncommon for them to have access to trustworthy polling or party support data (Hyde and Marinov 2014). 

We use a conjoint choice experiment in Malawi to answer these questions. Building on extant literature, we explore three mechanisms that are likely to influence how people perceive others' voting intentions. Firstly, we expect that people will make inferences based on preexisting stereotypes. These are likely to pertain to ethnicity, but can also involve other social categories, such as gender and age. Secondly, and especially when priors about social categories erode, we expect that people will use similalrity with themselves as a guide to draw conclusions. Specifically, we expect that people will identify targers that are more similar to themselves as likely co-partisans. Finally, people are also prone to positive ingroup biases. Therefore we expect that they are more likely to identify targets with likeable attributes as co-partisans than those lacking such attributes. 

In our conjoint design, respondents will be presented with pairs of hypothethical voters and asked which of these voters they think is more likely to vote for a specific party. Each hypothethical voter will have five attributes: surname and home-region indicating a likely ethnicity, gender, age, engagement in local politics, and others' description of their honesty. 

